[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Our next
guest on Beyond Belief
is a family therapist and a
past life regression therapist.
Take a look.
>>She believes the
lives we've already
lived contain the keys to a
better life now for each of us.
Anne Barham is a licensed
marriage and family therapist,
who practiced traditional
counseling for many years
before discovering past
life regression therapy.
In her book, "The Past Life
Perspective: Discovering Your
True Nature Across
Multiple Lifetimes,"
Anne takes readers
into her office
where clients mind their
unconscious memories
for formative experiences that
provide insight into solving
present day troubles.
She explains how the
therapy can clear
a path to spiritual happiness
and one's true purpose in life.
Today, on Beyond Belief.
>>NOORY: Anne, what a
great subject, and welcome
to Beyond Belief.
>>BARHAM: Well, thank you.
I'm delighted to be here.
>>NOORY: How did
you get involved
in this as a licensed
clinical family therapist?
How did you start dabbling
with past life regression?
>>BARHAM: Well, it was an
interesting process that I went
through, but it's an area
that I had interest in prior--
>>NOORY: Prior to?
>>BARHAM: Prior to.
And after I went through all
my formal, traditional training
and was working with clients
for a number of years,
I just had that feeling
that there's something
more here that I
need to be doing.
And I actually was
fortunate enough
that a couple of the
world's greats in past life
work and that era came
to a retreat center close
to my house and actually each
gave week long trainings.
So I was able to
attend those and then
start practicing a
little bit and realized
that this was a
method that I could
use to help a lot more
people, a lot more quickly,
and that also could incorporate
a lot of spiritual work
that I was particularly
interested in as well.
>>NOORY: In your book,
The Past Life Perspective,
which is, by the
way, a great read,
you discuss various
cases of people
who have gone through this.
Were you surprised
that so many people
have had these past
lives, and it comes out
in regression therapy?
>>BARHAM: Well, I
think the surprise
that really hit for me
was the fact that so
many people, no matter what
their background, no matter
what their experiences
as a meditator or not,
whether they even really
believed for sure that there
were prior lifetimes,
that so many people
were successful in pretty
easily retrieving past life
information, and being
able to then really
resolve some significant
issues in their current life,
as a result.
>>NOORY: And that's the
key for what you do.
You are convinced that
individuals' past lives, how
many they might have had,
have a bearing and an effect
on their current life.
>>BARHAM: Oh, absolutely.
It's very much like
the unconscious effects
that we have from things
that happen in our childhood,
that very often we're
having reactions
and acting out of these
experiences and memories
that we may not even really
know are operating for us.
And so what I'm doing
with past life work
is just extending
that time frame back
further into experiences,
relationships, beliefs
we've formed about ourselves
or about life and how it works,
from experiences of
our prior lifetimes.
And they do have a very
large impact on us now.
>>NOORY: Do you
find that somebody
who might have been a
very benevolent person
in a past life, is the
opposite in their current life,
or do you see this
progression of goodness,
where if you've had 10 past
lives-- I've heard some times
you might have had 500 past
lives-- but this progression
from past lives is
always a step up,
that you don't really
go back down again.
>>BARHAM: That's
not the way I've
seen it happen with people.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>BARHAM: So the way I look
at it, in general, yes,
our progress as a
soul, if you will,
is to understand and experience
increasing levels of goodness
and love and bringing
those divine energies
onto the planet.
That's kind of the general
framework, you might say,
of what we're doing here.
However, the way that we do
that is not exactly linear.
So it's sort of like when
these scientists talk
about the way you shoot
a rocket to the moon
is not a direct
line from A to B.
It's constant
course corrections.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BARHAM: So the same
thing's going on with us
in our various lifetimes.
So we may have one lifetime
where we're just really
a pretty horrible person,
and the next lifetime
we may actually flip
that and be someone who's
kind of making up for that
by really helping the poor
and really reaching
out to people in need.
>>NOORY: But the next life
could slip back again?
>>BARHAM: The next life
we might be working
on a little different issue.
>>NOORY: No, I always
thought it was progression.
>>BARHAM: So it's not
a direct progression.
So the way I like
to describe it is,
we're building a mosaic, in
a sense, and that in the end
it's going to be this beautiful
mosaic of all these experiences
we've had.
But each individual piece
that makes up that mosaic
might be a little nicer
piece, or a not so nice piece.
But when you put
it all together,
it's giving us
this broad picture.
Right.
>>NOORY: All right.
And for you to have a better
idea about past life regression
therapy, take a
look at this video.
>> Tell me what
happens as it happens.
Where are you?
>>I was shot.
>>You were shot.
>>In the chest.
>>Tom is dead.
>>They killed him too?
Mhm.
>>Everybody crying.
>>Are you watching this
from the other side?
>>Can't breathe.
>>You can't breathe?
>>>>[INAUDIBLE], you don't
have to feel any pain.
You can just observe it.
Tell me what's happening.
>>All full of blood.
>>You're full of blood.
>>Young boy next to me.
Don't know who he is.
>>Mhm.
>>Has he been killed, too?
>>Can't breathe.
>>He can't breathe?
>>A lot of screaming.
>>I died.
>>You died.
>>NOORY: Anne, that
was not you conducting
that physical therapy and
that regression therapy.
But apparently, that
individual was a 22-year-old
from the Civil War era,
might have even have
been a woman at that time.
How do you pull
that out of them?
I mean, how does hypnotism pull
those past lives out of people?
>>BARHAM: Well, it's not
necessary to use hypnosis,
though that's typically
what I use with clients.
But generally, the
idea is we want
to get the client
to a relaxed place,
where they're more focused on
what's going on internally,
rather than what's
going on around them.
>>NOORY: Was he hypnotized?
Did he look hypnotized?
>>BARHAM: He did.
It looked like he was
in some sort of trance.
Yeah.
And really, these
memories sometimes
are not that far
beneath the surface.
It's just that we're so
busy in our daily lives
that we may get a little
flash of something
that we just either
don't pay attention to,
or we don't realize, gee,
this might be information
coming from a past lifetime.
But what we're
just doing is we're
going into the unconscious
mind and looking and asking
for the source of
a particular issue.
Perhaps maybe it's like
you have a dynamic,
this negative dynamic
with your boss,
and you're always
getting in arguments
and you want to look at,
where does this come from?
Why is it so difficult
to resolve this?
And so I'll direct the
client to that origin,
and the memory will emerge.
So this is all information
coming from the client.
It's not me telling them.
>>NOORY: You're
not leading them.
>>BARHAM: No leading involved.
It's all their-- then
we're just following.
Typically, what I'll do with
the client initially getting
into lifetime is really get
them anchored in the body,
by asking them to
connect with their feet,
see what kind of
shoes they're wearing.
Is it boots or
sandals are skins,
or if their feet are bare,
and then go through the body,
getting the clothing, and
then checking surroundings, so
really anchoring them
in that lifetime.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>BARHAM: And then
I'm just moving them
through the significant events.
So I just have them
move forward to where
something important happens,
something significant changes.
>>NOORY: Are you able to
pinpoint the era they are in?
>>BARHAM: Yeah, actually that's
something that I traditionally
do, is I will ask for
the location in the world
and I will also
ask for the date.
>>NOORY: Do they know the date?
>>BARHAM: It's a really
interesting process.
It will just pop up.
So I'll have a little
technique that I'll
use, usually, that I'll
just count from three to one
and snap my fingers and tell
them, when I snap my fingers,
the date is going to
pop into your mind.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>BARHAM: And I would say
90% of the time they come up
with a date.
>>NOORY: What's the farthest
date back you've had somebody.
>>BARHAM: Well, we've definitely
gone to prehistoric, where
there is no date kind of thing.
>>NOORY: Really?
Like cave people?
>>BARHAM: Yeah, so the
client, in that personality
that they go to, that prior
personality, of course,
there's no concept of
what year is it, right?
So they just-- you
know prehistoric.
>>NOORY: Can they still
speak, or do they grunt?
>>BARHAM: So that's the other
really interesting part.
It's like there's a dual
processing that goes on,
in a sense, in a session, where
the client-- part of their mind
is involved in the lifetime
that they're going to,
and another part of them still
knows that they're on a couch
there, they're with me in the
room, and that we're talking.
And so the brain is
such an amazing tool.
But it knows that it needs
to talk to me in English.
And it knows that it's trying
to convey information to me.
So I haven't had anyone grunt.
I have had a few
clients where they've
gone a personality that's been
pretty reticent about talking.
>>NOORY: Uh huh.
>>BARHAM: And it
takes some real effort
to draw the information out.
>>NOORY: Have you had a
client that you have regressed
into an individual's life
that was not a good one,
maybe they were murderers,
or serial killer,
or something like that?
And do you see that personality
come out during the therapy?
>>BARHAM: Definitely see
some personalities come out.
I have not, fortunately, had
to deal with a serial murderer.
>>NOORY: Because how
would you handle that?
>>BARHAM: Yeah, that would
be an interesting challenge,
for sure.
I've definitely gone
to personalities
that have been very
unhappy, that have been
in huge emotional distress,
that have committed suicide,
and at times have been
responsible for others deaths,
certainly in war and battle
and things like that.
>>NOORY: And what would
you do if you had someone
who was a serial killer, and
in this therapy, they say,
yes, I killed brunettes
with bob haircuts.
I mean, would you freak
and get up and run out?
>>BARHAM: Probably, if I
thought that they were actually
dangerous at that
point in time, I'd
probably count them out
and pull them out of it.
But typically, in
that state, the people
are actually acting out
whatever it is that's going on.
They're reporting.
>>NOORY: They're
reporting on it.
>>BARHAM: So I've had
one person once reporting
that she went to a lifetime
where she was a pedophile.
>>NOORY: Geez.
>>BARHAM: So that was a
pretty interesting dynamic
to work with.
But again, it was
not as if that I
was worried that this
individual was then
going to go out and molest
children in their current life.
>>NOORY: Do they cry?
>>BARHAM: Yes very, often,
depending on what event.
But certainly, if
you go to a lifetime
where you've had losses,
which most of us have.
>>NOORY: Oh, sure.
>>BARHAM: So when a family
member dies or a loved one dies
or something traumatic happens,
very often the first sign
that this kind of
thing is coming up
is, I'll see the client
starting to cry, which
is one of the reasons why
when I do sessions remotely
through Skype or
something like that,
I have to make sure
that I have a camera
that I can see the client.
Because that's often
the first sign,
is something visual,
rather than they're
all of a sudden loudly
sobbing, or anything.
It might just be tears kind
of tracking down their face.
>>NOORY: And when somebody
initially comes to you,
what's the reason?
Why they do that?
>>BARHAM: There's just so
many reasons that people come.
So it falls into a lot
of different categories.
So one main category
is to solve a problem.
And that problem could
be an emotional problem,
like they've had a sense
of depression or guilt
all their life and
they can't really
point to where it came from.
>>NOORY: And they have no
idea about their past life
at this point?
>>BARHAM: And they have
no idea about that.
Right.
Or it might be
relationship issue.
That's a really big one, where
either they're having trouble
finding a relationship,
or they're
afraid of relationships, or they
are in a relationship that's
problematic and they can't
seem to solve the problem.
People will come to be
looking for life purpose.
They don't really know what
they want to do with their life,
or they think
they're on one path,
but it doesn't quite feel
like the right thing,
so they're wanting to
know more about that.
Physical ailments-- often
people will come to me
when there's an
issue that they're
having that the medical
doctors are kind of saying,
there's no real reason
for you to have this pain.
>>NOORY: Yeah, we have no idea.
>>BARHAM: Yeah,
you know, they've
tried all sorts of things
and they're clueless.
So there's that whole
problem solving,
and then there's the other
arena of really opening up
to new talents and
skills, opening up
to a greater sense of
your spiritual nature.
A lot of people just want to
come in and do exploration.
Sometimes people are looking
for help in their current life
in terms of, gee, I'm an
artist, but I'm feeling blocked,
and they want to tune into
a lifetime where they were
very successful as an artist.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BARHAM: So it does fall into
those two main categories.
>>NOORY: I mean, will
somebody come to you and say,
I'm scared of water.
I'm petrified of water.
What's wrong with me?
>>BARHAM: Mhm.
>>NOORY: And then you realize
they drowned in another life.
Does that happen?
>>BARHAM: Absolutely.
In fact, phobias were
one of the first places
that past life work was applied,
because it's sort of a pretty
obvious direct connection.
So you can have someone
who's afraid of driving
on the highway, even.
And I did have someone
come and work on that.
>>NOORY: And they got
killed in a crash probably.
Sure.
>>BARHAM: And it's
pretty obvious
what connection's going to be.
Or sometimes it'll be it
wasn't that they died,
but maybe their
entire family died.
>>NOORY: Right.
And they were the driver.
>>BARHAM: Or they
weren't even there.
But just that whole idea
of traveling on a freeway,
it just has so many
negative connotations.
>>NOORY: And they see
that in the past life
and they describe it to you?
>>BARHAM: Right.
So we'll go through that,
and then a lot of the work,
especially since I come from
a therapeutic standpoint,
is processing the emotions
that weren't dealt
with enough in that past life.
So very often, when people
have losses, particularly
in the past where we
didn't have as much
psychological help
available, people
would just kind of shut down.
And so you'd have
this terrible loss,
and you just would live the
next 30 years of your life
just not really
reaching out to people,
never really recovering,
being kind of a recluse,
and then you die.
And so you haven't worked
through what that loss meant.
And you haven't come
to the understanding
that even though you've
lost these people,
it doesn't mean that
your life is over, too,
and that you can
create new bonds,
and you can still have love
in your life and all that.
So if they haven't done
that kind of processing,
that's the type of
thing that we need
to do in order to help
them release that past life
experience.
>>NOORY: I was going to
say, once somebody mentions
their past life and you start
to analyze it and figure out
what happened to them then, how
do you turn that into something
positive in the current life?
>>BARHAM: Well, so
one of the things
that we do, we go all the
way through the prior life
and go through the
death experience.
And after that, it gets a little
bit-- people have probably
been doing a lot of reading
about near death experiences,
and all of that recently.
And it's quite in
vogue right now.
So they often talk about
a life review, people
who've gone through an NDE.
And so we do a similar
thing after the death
in the prior lifetime,
where we look back
at the life just
lived, and we look at,
what were the key themes
and the important lessons.
And we're not only looking at
the lessons that were learned,
but we're also looking at the
ones that perhaps could have
been learned, but were missed.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BARHAM: And then
we look at how it
relates to their current life.
Are there other similar threads?
Are there are differences
and contrasts?
Are you continuing
those same lessons
or have you actually-- does
it look like you've really
mastered them and now you're
moving onto the next step?
But we really do a lot of
work to incorporate that
into the current
life, and see how
those lessons can come forward.
Another thing that's
really fascinating
is often those past
life personalities,
if they have certain strengths
that they really expressed well
in that prior life, they can
then actually act as a mentor
to the current personality.
And so I've run into
that quite often
with clients, where perhaps they
want to get ahead in business,
and they go back to a lifetime
where-- I had one client who
went back to-- she was
a very successful man
in the fashion industry and
in the '40s in New York City.
And that prior personality
was able to give
the current personality
a lot of advice
about how to run
her business now,
and to pull forward these
strengths of leadership
and business acumen
and all of that.
So it was sort of like she had
this mentor in her hip pocket
now of this prior personality.
And she could actually
use that in times
of decision making, kind
of think, well, what would
he say to me about how
I should handle this?
With what would his advice be?
>>NOORY: Do you find that
everybody has had a past life?
>>BARHAM: Well, my belief
is that yes, we all have.
Not everyone can retrieve that
information for themselves,
although the grand
majority of people do.
I have a business
background so I
keep a lot of data
and statistics,
and I found that 85% of the
people that come to see me
do, indeed, retrieve
a prior lifetime.
>>NOORY: And how
many do they have?
How many lives?
>>BARHAM: Well, probably
hundreds to thousands.
>>NOORY: Yeah, that's
what we've heard.
>>BARHAM: Right.
We've been at this for a while.
>>NOORY: Some are long
lives, some are short ones.
>>BARHAM: Right.
Exactly.
I mean, some are
very brief if you
die in childhood of a
childhood illness, which
happened a lot in the past.
You will have some
very quick lifetimes.
What's interesting is the people
that don't retrieve a past life
fall into two categories also.
And one category is what they
come asking about ends up
really being about an issue
in their current life.
So when we go to the origin of
the issue, that's where we go.
It's current life.
And so we'll do work
around something
that happened in their
childhood or that kind of thing.
And then there's a
small number of people
that constitutionally
are just too
anxious to be able to
really relax and get
to that beta brainwave
state where you can retrieve
those memories were easily.
And that doesn't mean that's
a permanent condition,
it just means they
maybe need to work on it
more before they really
have built those muscles
to retrieve.
>>NOORY: What have
you, personally,
learned from all of these
cases that you've dealt with?
What can you say about
what this all is?
>>BARHAM: Well, it's
very clear to me
that our experiences
in our prior lives
have a very large influence
on who we are today,
on how we deal with things,
on our belief systems today,
and how we interact
with other people,
and that for the most part
it works unconsciously.
And it can either be helping
us or hindering us, depending.
And by bringing it
to consciousness,
it can be very helpful
in our current lives,
just give a way richer meaning
to even a relationship like you
and I. It's like, if we feel
like we've just met but,
wow, we have a nice
connection, it's like, hmm,
isn't this interesting?
Maybe we were together
in a prior life
and we were working
in a similar way?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>BARHAM: And
similarly, if we have
an instant negative
reaction to someone, it
might be something from a
prior life that's coming up.
So it really enriches that.
But the other thing that
I think is so important
is this understanding of our
journey as an eternal being
across many, many
lifetimes, and what
it is that we're trying to
create here, and kind of what
really is the purpose
of being on the planet.
You know, what is this human
adventure that we're on,
and what is it really about?
>>NOORY: And do these past lives
make us better people today,
or worse people today?
>>BARHAM: I believe
that, in general, they're
making us better people.
The idea is that we're
learning as we're going along.
>>NOORY: Or we should.
>>BARHAM: Or we should be.
And if we don't learn
it the first time,
we get to come back
and do it again.
And so that's-- you
know, in a sense,
it's wonderfully reassuring to
know that we don't have to get
everything right this lifetime,
because this isn't our one
and only shot.
It might be our one and only
shot in this current body
and personality.
So of course I want to do the
best I can with who I am today,
and the talents and
skills that I have.
But the fact that maybe I'm not
going to go out there and save
all the starving people in
this current personality
is OK, because maybe I've
done that in the past,
or maybe I'll do
that in the future,
but that we have
certain areas that we're
focusing on in any
particular lifetime that
are the talents and
skills that we're
intending to be using now.
And so we want to use those
to our best of our ability.
And again, if we go back to
that idea of the mosaic--
so this is one little piece I'm
working on in this lifetime,
and as I keep adding pieces
from other lifetimes,
you end up with a really
beautiful picture by the time
you're done.
>>NOORY: Will you
regress children?
>>BARHAM: I have not worked
that much with children.
There are some people that
really specialize in regression
with children.
And there's some amazing
stories that come out.
That's also the
area where people
have done a lot more
research, because it's
less tainted, I
guess you would say,
as far as really
trying to prove, gee,
this is evidence for
reincarnation because,
how would these children know
these details any other way?
So I've worked with
a couple children,
but overall my practice has
been much more with adults.
>>NOORY: Does anybody
talk about heaven or hell
in this interim period
before they come back
into a different life?
>>BARHAM: Those labels
don't usually come up.
Almost inevitably,
people go to a really
wonderful, warm,
loving, peaceful place
after they pass over.
>>NOORY: Sure.
That's a good thing.
>>BARHAM: It's lovely.
And most of them
want to stay there.
They kind of have
to be convinced.
All right, there's
more for you to do.
Time to come back.
But occasionally, if someone
has a really difficult death,
or had a really difficult
lifetime, when they first
crossover, it's
like they have to go
through a little bit
of a waiting period
to release the negativity
from that prior life.
But it's usually
pretty short lived,
and we get past
it pretty quickly.
But there might be a
little bit of confusion
or there might be a
little bit of negativity
that's still associated.
But that doesn't
happen very often.
So for the most part, people
have this universal experience
of being in this very
peaceful, very loving place.
>>NOORY: And how soon do you
think somebody reincarnations
after they physically
die from one life?
>>BARHAM: Well you know,
that's very individual.
And part of what I've
seen is if someone
has a very violent
death at a young age,
or a very unexpected
death, or suicide,
they'll come back pretty quick.
So they might come back in
a couple years in our time.
>>NOORY: OK.
Or sooner.
>>BARHAM: Or sooner.
But beyond that, it could
be anywhere from 20 years,
to 200 years, to who knows.
So we measure things in linear
time on the physical plane,
but on the spiritual plane,
time doesn't particularly exist.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
had anybody or any case
where they were two
lives at the same time?
>>BARHAM: I have
not run into that.
>>NOORY: I'm wondering
if that's possible?
>>BARHAM: Yeah, that whole
idea of parallel lives
has not happened with
the hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of people
that I've regressed?
>>NOORY: What has been the
most fulfilling episode you've
gone through with a patient?
>>BARHAM: Wow.
>>NOORY: That just made you
think, this is amazing stuff.
>>BARHAM: That's a
really great question.
There's been so many that
I have that reaction.
I think one of the things
that probably is most
touching for me
is when I'll have
a parent come in who's lost
a child at a young age, and--
>>NOORY: It's the
worst, I'm sure.
>>BARHAM: It's so hard.
But when we're able
to go back and reunite
with that child in
a prior lifetime
and see the connections of
love that were there before,
and the client comes out
of it with this really
deep understanding of, I
haven't really lost this child.
We were together before.
We came together again
in this lifetime.
We'll be together again.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BARHAM: And there's just
such a wonderful sense
of reassurance and peacefulness,
often, that comes from that.
>>NOORY: Does that
person-- here's an example.
A guy's married to a woman.
They have a great life.
She dies.
Does she reincarnate and come
back within a year or two
into some human that somehow
has an episode with that person
again?
Does that happen?
>>BARHAM: Could happen.
In fact, she could come
back into the same family
as a grandchild, or--
>>NOORY: And is it always
a baby they come back into?
I mean, can you
literally come back
as an adult in someone
else's personality?
>>BARHAM: I have not
seen that happen.
>>NOORY: You haven't
seen that either?
>>BARHAM: I can't say
no, because there's
more mysteries out there
then we'll ever understand.
But as far as in my work, I
have not seen that happen.
>>NOORY: So it starts
at the baby level.
>>BARHAM: Yeah, so the
soul makes a decision
to come into a new body,
and it starts out as a baby.
>>NOORY: I had always
heard that a lot of people
that you associate
with in your life,
you've had it in past
lives, and you'll
have it in future lives,
this relationship.
>>BARHAM: Very often.
Well, we tend to travel in what
we like to call "soul groups."
And that's sort of the
people that we really
like hanging out with.
>>NOORY: Sounds
like a new TV show.
>>BARHAM: Your soul group.
>>NOORY: The soul groups.
>>BARHAM: But there
are certain people
that we just have very
strong connections with,
and that these bonds of love
exist across many lifetimes.
And we decide on the
soul level, yeah,
we want to be together again.
Let's do it again, right?
Now, sometimes these
actually end up
being the people that we also
might have challenges with.
And part of that is
that we're choosing
to push each other's growth.
So I might decide that I'm
going to come back and be
with my husband
this time, but we're
going to have sort of a
conflictual relationship,
because I need to learn
patience and tolerance,
and he needs to learn
to be more open minded,
and that we've sort of decided,
on a higher level, that we're
going to come back and kind of
have trouble with each other
because these are
lessons that we want
to learn at this point in time.
But the overall, over
reaching principle
behind coming onto
the planet together
is that there's these
very strong bonds of love,
and that we want to continue
working together, evolving
together.
>>NOORY: I've got emails
coming in for you.
From New Mexico.
Marguerite-- Do I have to
come back after this lifetime?
What if I don't want to?
>>BARHAM: So again, that's
a very individual decision.
It's not pre-destined
that you must come back.
>>NOORY: There's not a
group that forces you back?
>>BARHAM: No.
But what we have
to understand is
that things on the higher plane
look a lot different than they
do here, and the understandings
that we have from a soul basis
are very different than
our small little human
personalities can really get.
So in a soul basis, Marguerite
may decide that I really
want to come back and
work on this thing
that I had such trouble with
in that life I just finished,
because I'm not
done with that yet.
I really haven't mastered
that, and I really
want to master that.
However, Marguerite
will never have
to come back as Marguerite.
It'll be a different body,
a different personalities.
So in a sense, no, she
doesn't have to come back.
And her life circumstances
will be different.
But she'll probably
have an opportunity
to work on some lessons
that she may not have
completed this time around.
>>NOORY: Donald, from Florida--
I've tried group recessions.
No results.
Nothing good there.
Does that mean I
never had a past life?
>>BARHAM: That's
another great question,
and I run into that a lot.
So doing a group
regression, to just explain
a little bit, that's when you
have someone like me who's
standing at the front of
a room, is leading you
through an induction, relaxing
you, and then just directing
you around.
But there's no interaction
between the person leading
the session and the group that
you're-- so it's just like
a guided meditation.
>>NOORY: Everybody's
individual, basically.
>>BARHAM: Yeah.
And so it's very
common for people
not to get anything from that.
And in fact, only
about maybe 50%
of people in a group
regression will get anything,
and I might just be a glimmer,
it just might be an idea.
And then the other whole half of
the group doesn't get anything.
They just say, well,
either I fell asleep,
or I went to this
nice relaxed place,
but nothing else came up.
So that doesn't indicate
anything at all, other
than those weren't the
right conditions for you
to do regression.
And it's very different
when you're interactive,
because I'm leading the client,
we're talking back and forth,
and I'm leading them
through and helping get
past blocks that might occur.
So no indication whatsoever that
you haven't had a past life.
>>NOORY: Do any of them,
Anne, talk about the future?
>>BARHAM: That's something that
I haven't done a lot of work
with, because personally, I
don't see it that helpful.
And again, I'm coming from
a therapeutic standpoint.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BARHAM: So I'm looking at
what's going to help you now.
>>NOORY: You're looking at
past issues to make you now.
>>BARHAM: Right.
What do we need to resolve?
There are some people that
get into doing future lives.
The way I look at that
is, again, the future's
not predestined, and
we have human choice.
So even though there
might be a possibility
that maybe this is a possible
future life that you might
have, again, depending on
the choices that you make,
that may or may not happen.
So that's sort of
a fun thing of, oh,
who am I going to
be in the future?
What am I going to
do in the future?
And it might give you a
goal to kind of look toward,
but I'm still not clear
myself on how therapeutic
that would be to spend a lot of
time going into future lives.
>>NOORY: Cynthia, from Maine--
I've had a really hard life.
Does that mean I did something
awful in my past lives?
>>BARHAM: Another great
question, and relates
a little bit to what you and
I talking about as far as, it
is a direct line or not.
And not necessarily.
What I've found is
that often the people
that have some of the most
challenging lives now,
I speak of it in terms
of, they've signed up
for spiritual postgraduate
work, and that actually, they're
a pretty highly evolved soul.
And they've mastered a
lot of tough challenges
already on human
plane, and their souls
decided to come back and
have a really tough life
to master even more
in a higher level.
So it's not necessarily
an indication that you did
dastardly things in the past.
It might be that you've just
decided that you're really
going to go for it,
and conquer some
of the more challenging
things on the human plane.
>>NOORY: Now how
do you apply what
you've learned
from the past life
to fix some person's
problem in the current life?
How do you tie
those two together?
>>BARHAM: Well, that's where we
get into the realm of therapy,
which, fortunately, I
have training of that.
So you're looking at the way
the patterns from the past
maybe are still playing
out in the present.
And then--
>>NOORY: You have to find
those, though, don't you?
>>BARHAM: Yeah, so
you go through what
happened in the past
lifetime, and then we
do that processing of.
How does this really relate
to your current life.
And sometimes it's very
obvious, and sometimes it's
a little more elusive
and you kind of
have to learn how to draw
the lines between the dots.
And then, depending on how
traumatic the events were
from the prior
lifetime, I may end up
doing more trauma work with
the person about releasing
the trauma and bringing
in healing energies,
and looking at what
the lesson was,
and how can they
incorporate it now.
And then we also pull in some
higher spiritual guidance.
And I have certain
techniques I use for that.
But the client is
able to get messages
from a spiritual guide
or some sort of figure
like that, coming--
>>NOORY: Guardian
angel, who knows.
>>BARHAM: Yeah, right.
An ancestor might
come in, whatever.
That can really help
them move forward
and understand it on
a different level,
or perhaps just might
give them-- very often
they get the message from
these spiritual guides
that everything is
really going to be OK.
You can relax and stop worrying.
And receiving that on the level
from some spiritual guidance
when you're in a
very relaxed state--
it gets in in a different way.
We're able to absorb that.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BARHAM: Much more
effectively than it just
being an intellectual
concept that,
you know, your
friend says to you,
oh, you just need to relax.
It's going to be fine.
But when you're getting
that from a figure
of spiritual guidance
that's come in just for you,
it causes a different
kind of shift.
>>NOORY: How soon, Anne, do
you see results with people?
>>BARHAM: So again,
that's variable.
And so for some
people it's overnight.
I myself, personally,
have-- for some reason,
my body seems to hang on
to things from prior lives.
And I'll end up with
some physical issue
that, when I get to the
past life origin of that,
it's like, boom, the next
day the problem's gone.
>>NOORY: That fast?
>>BARHAM: That fast.
So that's been pretty amazing.
A lot of issues,
though, for people,
it works a little bit
underground over time.
So particularly
when it's perhaps
a relationship dynamic,
or something that we've
grooved in in the
current life, may
be a bad habit or an
attitude that we've
grooved in in our
current life, the shift
may happen a little more slowly.
So I'll hear back
from clients maybe
after two or three
months, and they'll say,
wow, I'm looking back now
and realizing that something
has been subtly shifting
in the past few months,
and the way I'm
relating to my husband
is so completely different now
than it was three months ago.
But it takes a little
while sometimes for it
to just kind of
work underground,
and shift those patterns.
So it's pretty variable
depending on the issue.
>>NOORY: What major
message do you
want people to bring with them
and take away from your book,
"The Past Life Perspective."
>>BARHAM: Well, one of things is
I really want them to enjoy it.
Because one of the reasons
I wrote the book was--
>>NOORY: It's kind of fun.
>>BARHAM: It's fun, and the
stories are so fascinating.
At least they are to me, and I
think they are to other people.
I mean, the readers
who have read the book
and talked with me about it
have said, it's just so amazing,
these stories.
And they're a little
bit like "who done it?"
mysteries, in that
you're looking
for the origin of some issue,
and the life stories take
these twists and turns,
just like real life
does, and you're
not quite sure how
it's all going to come together,
and then all of a sudden
it does.
So there's just that whole
part of really enjoying it.
But my greater
purpose really was
to try to bring the message
to more mainstream America
that there's such a richness
that we can introduce
into our lives, into
our relationships
with other people, and into
just the whole dynamic of life
on Earth, if we embrace
this new perspective of yes,
I'm an eternal being.
I'm doing this life right now.
I've done others in the past.
I'll have others in the future.
Look at the connections
that we have.
And the other really, really
important thing for me
is, I believe that
past life work really
teaches us about the
commonality of human experience.
>>NOORY: I agree.
>>BARHAM: And the fact that
are seeming differences
on the surface are pretty
meaningless in the big picture.
And I've had people go from
all races, all religions,
all manner of political
beliefs, and all that.
And they end up
going to lifetimes
where they were the exact
opposite of what they are now.
>>NOORY: Well, and you
can be different sexes,
different races, different
everything, right?
>>BARHAM: Yep.
Exactly.
So I have a story in the
book of one client who went
to a lifetime as a Nazi pilot.
And he was devastated in
his current personality,
thinking there's no way
that I could be a Nazi.
There's just no way.
Yet there he was in the session.
He was even thinking in German.
And the perspective that also
gives us is, in whatever life
we're in, our world
view is what we believe.
You know, so it's like, if
I'm Muslim in a prior life,
that faith is as
important to me then,
as maybe being a
Christian is now.
And who are we to say
who's right about that?
It's just like, whoever
you are in one life is just
as strongly held as an
exact opposite opinion
in another life.
And I think just really
getting that perspective helps
us get over this issue
we have about people who
have a different
religious faith,
or have a different
political leaning,
or-- and we really get
more to that level of,
we're all really the same.
>>NOORY: Do you find, Anne,
that if you're the abused,
you become the abuser?
Do you have that
kind of juxtaposition
with these past lives?
>>BARHAM: There is certainly
an element of that,
that whatever side of
the fence you're on now,
you've either been
on the other side,
or you might be on the
other side the next time.
>>NOORY: Is that to
show you what it's like,
to give you that experience?
>>BARHAM: I think it.
And to get that balance.
And especially if-- let's say
I was a very wealthy person,
and I was very
greedy with my money,
and I didn't help the
poor, and I just horded.
>>NOORY: You become a
bag person or something.
>>BARHAM: Exactly.
The next lifetime I
might be very destitute.
And that's to teach compassion.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BARHAM: To teach
understanding,
to teach generosity.
>>NOORY: Then in
the next life time,
should you pick up those traits
and become a better person?
>>BARHAM: You might.
Or it could be that you're
worked that one out,
and maybe that's not the issue
the next lifetime that you're
really involved with.
Or you may pick it
up a century later.
You may come back and do a
little more in that arena.
But really, the idea is
to have that balance.
Somehow, as we have both
sides of the spectrum,
we do generally kind of come to
a place of balance and mastery
around that issue.
>>NOORY: Do your patients come
in with a little reluctance
or unbelievability?
>>BARHAM: A lot of
people are apprehensive.
You know, number one, they're
worried that they just
won't get anything.
That's just about
every single client
that comes in is, oh, I'm
not going to get anything.
I'm so worried.
And sometimes people are afraid
of what they're going to see.
They think, oh, I probably
was a murderer, or--
>>NOORY: I don't want
to know this, right?
>>BARHAM: Yeah.
Yet, here they are,
and they want to know.
And so, yes, there is some
reluctance and there's also--
>>NOORY: Do you tape
it and videotape it?
>>BARHAM: I don't videotape.
I do record the session
so that the client has it.
>>NOORY: Do you let
them listen to it?
>>BARHAM: So I give them
a copy of the recording,
and they have that for
as long as they want.
Many, many people
never listen to it,
because they
remember it so well.
>>NOORY: All right.
Or they're afraid?
>>BARHAM: No.
It's really more that they
tell me that they remember it
so well, and it's just gotten
in so deeply that they just
don't ever bother
listening to the recording.
I forget where I was
going with that now.
>>NOORY: Well, we were talking
about these past lives,
of course, and the
progression of what happens.
If you're an abuser, do
you become the abused?
>>BARHAM: Right.
Yeah.
So the balance is something
that we're working toward.
And I think we're
also, hopefully,
as a species, evolving
toward a place
where we all are living
more out of place
of kindness and compassion
and love for each other.
>>NOORY: Are you
finding that people
are getting better or worse,
in terms of how they are
and how they treat people,
based on these past lives?
>>BARHAM: Oh, definitely better.
>>NOORY: That's a good thing.
We're evolving, you're saying.
>>BARHAM: We definitely
are evolving.
When you go back to, say,
the Middle Ages or beyond,
the level of man's inhumanity
to man is atrocious.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BARHAM: And the
devaluing of human life
is really pretty horrible
sometimes in the past.
So even though we still
have elements of that,
I think, as a society, or as a
species, we've really evolved.
>>NOORY: And if people want
the information on what
you do, how can they find you?
>>BARHAM: Well,
I have a website,
and it's pastlives.org.
>>NOORY: Well, that's
easy to remember.
>>BARHAM: So that's plural.
And they can always search
for me on Google or whatever.
And there's quite a bit of
information on my website.
And my book is available.
It's published through
Simon and Schuster,
so it's available
just about everywhere.
And yeah, and I love
working with clients.
That's still my
number one thing.
>>NOORY: I can tell.
>>BARHAM: It's so
fun, and I meet
so many fascinating people.
And we have a very intense
couple hours together,
and hopefully change their life.
And it's really awesome.
>>NOORY: Anne, thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>BARHAM: Thank you,
George, I really
did enjoy talking to you.
>>NOORY: What a
fascinating subject,
to be able to take past lives
and use that information
to fix your current
life, truly is amazing.
The book "The Past
Life Perspective."
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching Beyond Belief.